hi guys welcome to this week's study
group my name is Alex I'm one of the
expert teachers here at e2 language
hello to those typing in the chat box
lujon
Manpreet welcome I'm gonna type hello in
the chat box if you're watching on Zoom
with me please introduce yourself if
you're watching on YouTube hello I'll
try to chat with you guys a bit later
cool hi just be on Alexander great name
hi OMA welcome guys is anybody here for
the first time first live class or first
study group let me know Harish first
time for you welcome okay lots of people
here for the first time okay great so
the study group is basically a review of
what we did this week in the live
classes as you guys know if you're eetu
subscribers we have 10-ish live classes
per week reading writing listening
speaking and then in this group in the
study group on Friday
I just review the most important things
particularly grammar vocab and some
skills from those sessions so if you
attended those classes this will be a
review if you didn't come to the classes
no worries this is just some extra
practice for you and also week sort of
get ready for next week's live classes
I'll let you know what topics were
studying so if there's something that
interests you you can be sure to
register for it if you're not familiar
with live classes it's just like this we
run them through our platform e to
language comm you register if you're a
free subscriber on the website you can
come along to about 4 live classes per
week if you're a paid member you have
access to all of them and you can
register for as many as you want and you
can watch any of those classes in our
live class library as well during this
session today if you have a question
please use the chat box I will try to
answer everything during class or
definitely at the end if I miss you all
right so we're gonna review this week's
live classes prepare for next week's
live classes
you at the end take about an hour let's
see if we can do it faster though I'm
gonna start with a very very very quick
recap of what we studied this week in
our classes at e2 language so on Monday
last week academic writing task 1 you
guys were working on pie charts and
practicing proportions and percentages
general tasks one we did a formal letter
Tuesday we wrote an essay agree disagree
and also we worked on articles in this
class reading was practicing summaries
and matching Wednesday this was mock
test so we wrote full task one pie chart
and a full task one formal letter by the
way if you're subscribed as an academic
member of course you have access to this
class if you're subscribed as a general
member you have access to this class and
you have access to everything else as
well so Thursday that was last night was
anybody in class last night with me just
let me know yes or no not sure just be
ok you were there that's good Corina
right ok
daily great I recognize your names
thanks for coming along today so last
night we wrote a full essay about
smoking about whether burning smoking is
a good idea in the class after that
there was reading multiple-choice
sentence completion summary matching big
class and today if you haven't
registered already be sure to because
speaking class is all about the
environment practice and samples and the
listening class a bit of spelling
practice vocab and collocations as well
we also have classes now Saturday and
Sunday so our Saturday Sunday classes
are free and they're a repeat of the
mock tests so you can do the task one
class and the task two class across the
weekend so be sure to register for those
through e tu language comm all right so
let's review a few important things from
the session and welcome to those just
joining us if you were in those classes
this week consider this a review and
your aim should be to get everything
perfect
if you were not in the classes just use
this as some bonus practice okay but as
we go there's points attached to all of
these exercise and so if you've got a
pen and paper just keep track of your
score and for you guys who came along to
the classes aim for one hundred percent
fifty to fifty two let's see if we can
do it I'm gonna review academic task 1
and general task 1 but don't worry if
it's not the the test that you're doing
so even if you're a general IELTS
student we're gonna look at some useful
language from the academic class and
vice versa so we're going to do academic
task 1 general task 1 writing task 2 and
some listening practice hopefully all of
that a lot to do okay here's our first
little challenge this comes from the
academic class on Monday you can see
some pie charts here that's what you
guys were working on and really simple
activity to start I want you to match
half is it a is it B is it C is it D or
E just tell me really quickly the first
one which picture represents half well
done common you're the winner there yeah
good one we Jen and I'm gonna give you
60 seconds to do the rest of them you
can type into the chat box if you like
okay go for it
you
nice work guys in the chat box you
already on 100% there it's a few more
seconds for the others
okay beautiful here are the answers I
think everyone's correct half is D two
thirds a 3/4 e 1/4 B and one-third is C
so of course this language is gonna be
very useful when you're describing
proportions in academic writing but also
when you're writing task 2 you might use
this language you know half of all
people in Australia speak a second
language for instance so give yourself a
score I think everyone's on five off to
a good start
well done common cool well done let's
keep going so now a little more
challenging look at this graph here this
is the amount of rubbish produced you
can see that women produce this amount
of rubbish and men produced this amount
of rubbish estimate here I'm gonna show
you some sentences I want you to tell me
which sentence is wrong grammatically
wrong not factually wrong grammatically
wrong
here we go read through all four I'll
give you a clue let's look at number one
over 50% of rubbish is produced by women
this sentence is correct
okay but two three or four one of them
is wrong I'll give you 60 seconds to
make your choice
are you guys are so good I don't think
we need 60 seconds I can see lots of
correct answers coming through so you're
all correct number three was
grammatically wrong one two and four
totally fine there
do you have one point yes they should be
sitting on six points now well done
everybody okay quick challenge for you
so we've got a sentence here about women
over 50% of rubbish is produced by women
I want you to write a similar sentence
but tell me about men so under 50% I'm
not going to give you a minute for this
I'll just give you 30 seconds can you
write the complete sentence tell me
something about men right into the
chatbox let's see I can basically follow
this structure here so under 50% what
comes next
you
okay nice work guys I'm fat suit on your
sentence I think's a little bit
different almost a third of men produce
rubbish grammatically correct but I
don't think that reflects what's in the
graph here some other options men
generate under 50% of the rubbish
produced well done Omar Karina under 50%
of rubbish is generated by men
Mamta is produced by men well done okay
they're all looking pretty good 1/3 of
rubbish was produced by man that's
that's better that suit on yeah under
50% yeah nice work everyone so you can
actually no point for this one here's my
example under 50% of rubbish is produced
by men okay well done good Mohammed
that's a good sentence two men we're
responsible for about a third of rubbish
okay if you want to do more of that if
you need a bit more practice with your
proportions please go to the live class
library on e to language come and look
at Monday's task one live class academic
of course general tasks one your turn
now and we're going to focus on error
correction so this is definitely
something that's relevant to academic
and to general IELTS preparers as you
know if you want to score seven or eight
in writing also in speaking you need to
have good grammar so in fact to score
band eight you need to have the majority
of your sentences error-free so most of
them almost all of them that's according
to the criteria this is the marking
criteria for writing task 1 public
version let's see over here grammatical
range and accuracy you get a score for
this the examiner will give you a score
from nine hopefully not down here at
zero and you can see here this is Ben
and a the majority of sentences are
error free so we spend a bit of time in
live classes working on editing and
error correction and we also have an e
to writing correction could have anyone
here and submitted your work for
feedback or for assessment through the
platform let me know if your if you've
done the mock test if you've bronze
silver gold or platinum subscriber you
have some writing assessment included in
your subscription and when we send it
back to you we correct some of your
grammar but sometimes we use a code so
that you can correct some of the errors
yourself so I'm just going to show you
how that works now if you've got
questions about your work of course let
me know so when you get your work back
you also get this little code attached
to it it's quite simple you've probably
seen something similar if you have done
any language study at a an institution
all you need so we break it down into it
now as prepositions articles verbs
spelling punctuation word choice word
form word order and missing word so
sometimes as I said we will correct for
you but if there's a spelling mistake
will often just indicate to you hey
here's a spelling mistake because we
want you to fix it up yourself when
you're in the test of course you need to
be conscious of your your errors and to
be able to correct them yourself so
here's an example sentence which comes
from the general class when I was
arrived home I realized I had not taken
my small travel bag out the overhead
Locker so there are some errors in here
I'm gonna put our code onto it so we've
got problems here with V which is verb
error and also missing word here can you
correct this sentence for me I'll give
you 30 seconds type into the chat box
have a go
okay beautiful work given the chatbox
well done everyone I think they're
looking good
um there some of your spelling realized
with Zed and some with an S and both are
totally fine so my spelling here is the
British spelling so don't worry if
you're using said that is totally fine
so here is the correct sentence just
check it against your own one when I
arrived home I realized I had not taken
past participial my small travel bag out
of that was the missing word out of the
overhead Locker okay well done everyone
just be careful with your capital
letters new capital W you need the big
eye that's also something to edit for in
the real test okay let's do one more
here is my problem sentences while the
bag itself is not valuable problem here
there are several item in it what I
cannot afford to loose here comes the
code 30 seconds fix it up please
you
all right looking pretty good in the
chat box there Harish make sure you got
a capital W but sure that's just the
typo well done on the corrections yes
and good job fixing up that punctuation
well done guys yes good common so here
is one option while the bag itself is
not valuable so here's our subordinating
conjunction while and then full sentence
comma there are several items plural in
it that I cannot afford to lose and
common has which I cannot afford to lose
and that is correct as well so which or
that just not what and lose l osv not
double oh yeah okay well done I think
everyone did pretty well there so keep
this in mind when you get your work back
it's worth the time correcting your
errors I know a lot of people just get
their feedback and don't look at it
again but when we send your writing back
to you spend some time fixing up the
mistakes that we've pointed out also we
read the comment will tell you know the
things to focus on and when you take a
tutorial you can also chat with your
teacher about these errors so you
probably noticed that you have a few
errors that you make a lot often like
articles verb tenses prepositions that's
where your focus when you're editing on
test day and trying to get it 100%
perfect with the majority of error free
sentences all right guys let's move on
to writing to us - did anybody come to
the class on Tuesday in which you wrote
about plastic bags let me know very
useful class know oh very good although
up illumi was there you're gonna you're
gonna nail this one then alright so for
the rest of you this would be a bit of a
challenge but let's see in the Tuesday
class in addition to writing we focused
on articles now articles are and LA and
zero article very very confusing part of
English I know in fact there are dozens
and dozens of rules related to articles
but today we're going to just focus on
it a few of them four of them in fact so
first things first to master articles
you need to know which nouns are
countable which are uncountable so for
example a pen like these 10 countable
now because you can have one pin two
pins 3 pins because I won't give me an
example of an uncountable noun please
thank you Robert well done water memory
that's an interesting one I think you
can have memories countable air yes
that's good pollution well done
furniture common blood yes good one ok
so those things you can't say one
furniture two furnitures no you can say
one chair two chairs but furnitures
uncountable great Muhammad information
is uncountable cheap one sheep two sheep
right all right so let me show you
twelve words here thank you guys for
answering that question here twelve
words I want you to just organize them
into countable or uncountable these are
some of the words from Tuesday with a
few changes so got information bag
pollution people evidence threats
research and so on I just want you to
decide is it a countable or B
uncountable sixty seconds have a go
you
okay thank you I can see lots of numbers
pouring in here
good job also let me know how confident
are you do you think you've got 100%
here or are you having a few guesses
about 80% alright well that's pretty
good let's check here we go
information of course uncountable bag
countable pollution uncountable
one person many people one threat too
many threats one child many children
difficult decisions many problems ok all
right I'll give you a moment just to
check there everybody happy with that
all right so once we've got these
organized I'm just gonna show some very
basic article rules so as I said there
are a lot of rules with articles there
are also a lot of exceptions so I'm I've
simplified it here a little bit but I've
got some broad rules just to share with
you that we'll deal with most of the
errors that we see okay so this um
countable column our daily good question
researchers you're correct when it's a
person if we had here number 7 er on the
end that's a person and you're correct
that would go over here into countable
but research the activity is uncountable
we can't make it plural okay oh my I
just swap those two around because
people is the plural of person one
person two people so we can definitely
count that alright so over here we've
got mmm when these are singular like
let's take bag for an example
we need to put an article in front of it
a bag or the bag of course there are
other words you can use like my bag or
his bag or that bag but we generally
can't just say bag same with pin I have
pin no I have a pen what this is my pin
well this is the pin my friend gave me
so singular when he's thinking of one
thing usually I should say usually one
singular countable object we need an
article or something like possessive
pronoun that's a very very common error
that we see and when it's plural let's
say bottles then you can use the four
specific these are the bottles I got
from the cupboard or no article so down
here whoops sorry
the plural so the decisions the people
or nothing
people decisions when we're talking in
general uncountable
no ah and no and so we cannot say our
research no or add research but we can
say the research so the research we did
was very interesting and we can have no
article research is a very important
part of university ok I can see a couple
of questions I'll come back to them at
the end I think think you just try to
hang on to those questions and put them
back in a bit later guys thank you so
give yourself a score out of 12 by the
way all right
cool well done 11:10 pretty good okay so
a lot of people seems like just one or
two errors so hopefully you'll remember
those errors you won't make them again
let's keep moving
so here's an introduction from Tuesday's
class she says tasks to class I want you
to add the missing articles so just have
a guess if you're not sure here it is
let's do the first one together and
ain't gonna fill the gap with our
and all that or nothing first one says
plastic pollution is becoming one of
greatest threats to our environment is
it a plastic pollution and the or
nothing what do you guys think for
number one okay
feud varieties okay a lot of people
saying that and a few people saying
nothing so I guess you're thinking are
we talking about a specific type of
pollution like the plastic pollution in
my country or are we talking about
pollution in general in which case it's
no article so you can consider that if
you're talking generally no article so
I'm gonna give you one point five
minutes ninety seconds read through this
whole introduction and put an article or
a - for nothing go for it
okay thank you guys
same question are you confident in your
answers or are you having a complete
guess of some of them OMA is confident
good on you or was that yes I'm guessing
okay Sudan 90% let's chat shall we
here we go I'll read through it plastic
pollution now we are talking in general
here so we don't need article an article
plastic pollution is becoming one of the
greatest threats to our environment
particularly the oceans now here if you
put nothing that's also correct
particularly oceans that's also okay but
in our sample we had the article
particularly the oceans and plastic bags
are the main culprits some of therefore
suggested banning the use of these bags
this essay will discuss why I completely
agree that a ban is the best way to curb
the amount of plastic being discarded
how did you go and feel free to argue
with me as well okay well done okay
awesome that's what I'm asking why not
I probably you're saying why not the ban
is that right okay yeah it's a good
question I think you could make an
argument for the to me if I said the ban
yeah it's a good question I would say
here this is where as I said there are
dozens of rules about articles it's not
always easy to give us specific reason
why we've chosen if I said the ban here
it sounds to me like it already exists
but in this case I'm
[Music]
there is not bad I think that's a bad a
bad description yeah I take your point
that we already mentioned it's a good
idea to ban bags but I would still say
the second time I mention it I would
still say a ban yeah maybe if we
mentioned at the third time let's think
hmm perhaps it's because we haven't
actually sent the word ban I'm going to
think about that well I think it's a
really good question yeah let me give it
some thought but thank you a very good
challenge to me okay so a little
question to look at here is why as
that's it don't ask me why are these
answers correct for some of them there
is a very simple explanation and for
others there there is not clearly but
I'm gonna just show you four pretty
solid rules about articles and hopefully
that will help a little bit so rule
number a real letter I should say
singular countable nouns need an article
usually usually they need an article I
say usually because I'm I'm just making
a slight distinction here between a like
a physical thing like a pen or a person
and an abstract idea like life or love
sometimes there are countable nouns
which are abstract which don't take an
article but for the moment let's just
think about things like solid things
single countable nouns we have to say a
pin and a person or the bottle or my
bottle okay so that's one rule we've got
to put something before a singular
countable now will be when we're talking
about something specific so that the
plastic bags in my car that's specific
different to plastic bags in general and
we're talking about something specific
we used us so this is the bottle that I
took from the cupboard specific rules
specific things rule say this is an easy
one with superlative
we use that can someone give me an
example of a superlative please yeah
nice one the best good extreme afterlife
so here we're thinking of adjectives or
adverbs so what's the superlative of
happy she is person in the office great
daily that's a good one the largest
mountain in the world is Everest common
just take off most they're very good
guys the happiest person she is the
happiest person here
what about intelligence he is person in
the office good one Mohammed yet yes
good that's it done he is the most
intelligent person so when we have that
happiest for the most something before
it the the biggest the tallest the
happiest the most intelligent final
world a nonspecific countable plural
things countable all plural things no
article so this is where we're talking
like pollution
uncountable pollution or who else do we
have evidence evidence shows and plural
things I like dogs or uncountable I eat
a lot of chocolate I like chocolate I
should say the uncountable nonspecific
things we don't need an article ok let's
have a quick quick review by the way as
I've mentioned a million times if you
want more practice with this it's from
Tuesday's live class listen it's in the
live class library now we'll just do a
very quick review though so this first
one plastic pollution is becoming which
rule is that one related to why is it
plastic pollution rule a will be will
see or rule T yeah great job rule D this
is a nonspecific uncountable theme
pollution I'm not
talking about a certain kind of plastic
pollution just plastic pollution in
general what about this one is becoming
one of the greatest threats which rule
applies here a B C or D yeah beautiful
so say some of them are very easy the
greatest we use la Harish yes if you are
talking about specific evidence you can
use that exactly the evidence he
provided yeah you're exactly right
because that's specific so that would be
there are here specific things countable
or uncountable that's what you're asking
about here okay so more articles
practice watch the recorded class in the
library quick final test for you here we
go three sentences here for each one
there's I think two or three options for
choosing an article or no article don't
forget this one it's also part of the
rule 45 seconds to have a go at this
let's do the very first one together is
it uh plastic waste the plastic waste or
just plastic waste yeah good job so just
like plastic pollution this is in
general guys not specific just general
so I choose this one forty-five seconds
off you go
okay here we go let's check I think
everybody is ready almost very few more
seconds
okay here are the answers guys so first
one plastic waste is becoming a huge
problem
I think everyone got that number two one
of the best superlative one of the best
ways to help the environment is to ban
plastic bags and due to the danger it
poses to health many people want to ban
smoking in public places my hundred one
hundred percent well done to you
everyone else had to go yeah good
question why is the environment this is
one of those just one of those rules we
almost always say the environment when
we're talking about that global thing so
the environment is suffering from blah
blah blah or we need to protect the
environment it's just that's how we talk
about it not really a good reason you
can't leave it out there no good I have
it in there the environment okay pretty
good job guys thank you why not the
public places because we're talking
again in general kind of all public
places not a specific one no it's just
in general okay so I'm gonna refer you
back to Tuesday's class for more work
and I do also have another suggestion at
the end of class if you want more work
on articles as well it's a it's a very
confusing aspect of English I know but
the more that you work on it the better
you're gonna be okay that's the end of
our writing stuff let's have a little
bit of time to look at listening have
you guys been to a listening live class
before it's happening tonight Melbourne
time we just have this once a week and
in the listening class of course you do
IELTS listening practice but we also do
some vocab
building we work on things like catching
the plural or the singular version you
know sometimes it's difficult to hear is
there an S or no s and this one actually
from last week's class we had a little
focus on distractors so if you've done
IELTS you'll know that often rather than
just hear one simple answer they'll
throw in a few like if they're confusing
options
they're called distractors they're just
part of every of every language test I
suppose so I just want to quickly review
that from last week all right so have a
look at this girl we're gonna find out
what's her occupation and when does her
holiday begin so you know I asked this
thing you'll often hear distractors
these are the sort of wrong options I
suppose we'd call them so for instance
we're waiting to hear what's her
occupation and she says something like
this
I'm studying nursing at the moment but I
really want to be a doctor right now
though I'm working as a waitress so just
be sure you don't choose the first word
that you hear necessarily make sure you
always keep listening in IELTS so got
distractors and a correct answer so
what's your occupation nursing doctor or
waitress yeah that's it and it's easy
when you see the text but when you just
hear it it's a little more difficult of
course but this is true her occupation
is waitress well done so then the
question like this when does a holiday
begin you'll be hoping okay I'm just
gonna hear a date like Thursday the 25th
of November or January 1st but it's not
that easy they'll often say a few other
dates just to check that you really
understand what you're hearing you're
not just catching words because you know
if I was a very very low level speaker
of your language but I knew the dates I
could probably catch a correct answer
without understanding what I've heard so
IELTS they have to discriminate like did
you just hear the word or did you
understand
what you heard mmm so let's see what she
says here okay I finished my last shift
on June 16th and the vacation starts on
the 21st and goes for nine days so I'll
be home on the 30th when does the
holiday begin it's no tricking you guys
well done very nice and notice she also
said the the month here so you've got to
include that as well
June 21st haha maybe I did trick you
okay let's do some quick practice let's
see um hopefully the audio is fine here
let me know if you're having trouble hmm
we've got five really short answers here
and by the way this is this is not part
one of an IELTS listening this is just a
warm-up that we do in class sometimes so
for each question here you're just going
to hear one or two sentences so if you
haven't done a listening before don't
don't think this is how it works it
doesn't work exactly like this but
firstly we're gonna catch what's his
name you have to spell something here
number two what's the person's
occupation number three preferred mode
of transport which kind of how do they
like to travel for how long is this
person gonna stay somewhere and five
reasons for studying and be careful of
distractors here
alright so everybody we're ready to go
I'm gonna play the audio just type your
answers in the chat box here we go
than in know s tele2 Eldon - I was an
accountant for 15 years and then went
back to uni and even though I never
thought I'd actually become a lawyer
I've been working as one for about 18
months now three it's definitely easier
to take the car but I'm a bit of a
greenie so I'd rather take the bus
having said that I can't bear the train
in peak hours
for my course goes for three years but
I'm only going to be staying here for
fifteen months because I'd like to live
on my own for a year
five I have to admit I'm not studying
for fun like I did when I was younger
now it's more for business than pleasure
okay how do we go remember your
Spelling's got to be correct as well
hmm okay a little bit of variety in the
answers are you feeling confident guys
spelling looks hmm not sure we're gonna
get a hundred percent on the spelling
here and looks like number two was the
most difficult is he a lawyer or is he
an accountant okay
lawyer so first names sorry second name
is still 'don it's te l do n lawyer bus
very good okay good job just some
spelling errors there 15 months and
business careful with the spelling of
business okay just a typo I'll allow
this okay score out of five anybody get
100% mmm
for three who was that yes me it's flew
past that's a ton well done yeah with
his name good question Mohammed should
we put a capital letter yes you should
capital yes if you're doing this on the
paper-based test you could write it all
in capital letters if you're not sure if
you're doing it on the computer you
should put a capital letter for a
person's name correct
they said no more than one word someone
told me let me just get backwards here
so see these instructions that's a great
question no more than one word and or a
number so you can have one word and a
number that's okay and you can have one
word or you can have one number but you
cannot have two words hopefully we
didn't okay no that's fine so 15 months
one word and a number that's fine is it
okay to just write 15 no you've got
about 15 months
Harish I'm doing paper-based can I write
all my listening answers in capitals yes
you can
on the paper-based test you can okay
we're up to the final thing the best
thing collocations one of my favorite
things so collocation super important
when you're writing big part of your
task to score the collocations words
that fit together regularly naturally
can anyone give me an example of a
common collocation think of two words
that often sit together can be a verb
and a noun or an adjective and a noun
beautiful to look at a hard time think
about yet set a fire yes set something
on fire good left out very difficult yes
so those are just common collocations
there's actually a whole list of
academic collocations if you google
academic collocations
list Pearson has produced a enormous
list of collocations yeah very good come
around good so here's some other ones
heavy traffic is a collocation dire
consequences terrible consequences
another one so here's my challenge to
you this is from listenings the
listening class last week or is it this
week I can't remember I think it's both
actually you'll review it tonight okay
so down here we've got the start of the
collocation carry and then over here the
second part let's do number one together
shall we carry
truth Carrie Marcel carried down nice
job guys it's carry out yeah carry out
which means do something okay 45 seconds
have a go or have a guess
you
okay that wasn't much time but
everyone's doing a good job
beautiful all right here come the
answers sorry a few more seconds I can
see some people just up to number six
all right here we go so carry out exert
control over impose strict rules
extensive research you can put them
together I carried out extensive
research and the truth what's another
way to say this if you bend the truth
what does it mean lie yep correct yeah
then the truth is tell a small lie or a
white lie we call it a delicate matter
lose your temper what's another way to
say this I lost my temper yesterday what
happened yes angry got angry well done
that's a tongue override no I think it's
a different word you're thinking of
there and lastly calm down relax final
challenge here we go let's use them way
to complete these sentences with the
correct form of the collocation now some
of them I'm sorry I missed the score
there
thank you Kristen's yeah when you put in
the right collocation but you might need
to make it past tense or third person or
something like that
so first one the researchers mm-hmm an
experiment to test their theory could
could be present could be past
oops
I'll just give you 30 seconds for this
go for it
you
all right looking good everyone except
for number two can everyone just
double-check their answers here he is
nice but sometimes he hears tempers
suddenly sometimes he yes that's better
everyone subject-verb agreement also
spelling much better here we go
now if you've got Kerry the researchers
Kerry with why that's fine to carry out
or in the past carried out an experiment
he's nice but sometimes he loses his
temper I don't support dishonesty but I
think it's alright to bend the truth
somebody was asking me about bend the
rules in here on zoom' and also on
YouTube and the rules is to yeah break
the rules a little bit but then the
truth is to lie a little bit slightly
different and number four the school
decided to impose strict rules so again
you should have a score here out of four
well done I think that was mostly a
hundred percent from what I could see
number three Kim can number three be
tell the truth look yes that's a
collocation tell the truth but then it
it doesn't really make sense I don't
support dishonesty but I think it's all
right to tell the truth that that
doesn't logically kind of make sense to
me so that we've got a contrast here
like I don't like dishonesty but it's
okay to be a little bit dishonest is the
meaning there face the truth again
that's a good colour keishon to face the
truth but it logically I don't think it
really makes sense
like saying I if we use been the rules I
don't support and then support breaking
the law but I think it's alright to bend
the rules sometimes ah maybe I don't
want to give an example but bend the
rules is okay but breaking the law is
not okay that's the meaning I want to I
want to impart there so I don't know if
anybody gonna be bothered with the maths
but you should be able to give yourself
a score out of 52 not sure if I've got
anybody with a hundred percent have we
are common forty seven can anyone beat
that it's pretty impressive about 45 for
you guys Mohammed Omar well done I'm
sorry Chris don't see let me just play
backwards there Christian CEO says can I
say Kim maintain strict rules yeah you
can say that that's fine didn't keep
track don't marry Harry she can have a
have a guess do you feel like you're
more than 50% corrects more than 75%
correct
three-quarters okay that's pretty good
and you know you didn't come to those
classes most of you so a really good
effort there I'm pretty happy with that
link each week we're getting a bit
better week one I remember it's not not
so good okay good job guys very nice
remember you can review all those
classes and please just go okay the next
week so tomorrow tonight we've got
speaking class we've got listening class
for our e to subscribers make sure that
you come along and join those tomorrow
we are doing writing task 1 for academic
and for general and also on Sunday we're
doing writing task 2 mock test so in
those classes you have a chance you have
the opportunity to write a full task one
with your teacher the weekend is me and
dr. Anna and I think it's just me and
dr. Anna showing you exactly what to do
it's really good even if you came to the
class on Wednesday Thursday it's a great
idea to try again on the weekend we
always find that the students are doing
better in the weekend class if you've
attended
last before the next week after the
weekend if your academic task 1 we're
gonna work on describing tables
I must confess this is my least favorite
academic task 1 but we make it easy in
our class on Monday and also Wednesday
and Saturday we'll work on that and
we're gonna focus on how to write a good
overview general you guys are going to
write some semi-formal letters and focus
on how to make complex sentences very
important in the writing test to all of
us all together we're going to work on
opinion is those including is it a
positive or negative development type
question and a big focus on vocab and
grammar next week as well if you want to
get ready for those classes then I would
suggest read about taxing junk food
that's one of our tasks to topics just
Google The Guardian
it's right to tax sugar and Thursday's
class were writing about assessment
formal exam so Google the conversation
exams stressful and read these articles
they'll give you good ideas good
vocabulary as well grab a picture of
this scream if you like or a photo on
your phone and I'll just explain where
you can get more practice so for those
of you who are regulars and members
we've got free sorry I can see your
questions coming I will come to them in
two seconds our eetu subscribers know
this place well this is your dashboard
and if you're a paid subscriber you have
this excellent bonus of recorded classes
so everything I mentioned today you can
go back and watch the recording even if
you missed the live class that's over
here for free members I'm sorry we don't
provide that you have to come you have
to come along to class self-study
materials if you're a free subscriber
you have access to some of this a lot of
this so look into either general course
if your academic it will say academic go
into the writing the reading the
listening whatever heaps of stuff their
core skills this is our grammar
department where you can work on your
my skills make sure you book your
tutorials if you are bronze subscriber
and higher you get between one and five
tutorials they're really awesome and you
can now take a full mock test with us
too so you can do the computer-delivered
format for reading and listening and
writing and speaking you do one-on-one
with me or one of our teachers a full
speaking test and we give you feedback
and scores on your writing and speaking
so have a look at that if you're not
already a subscriber would really
recommend our current special offer
which is mock test plus express package
only $59 cheaper than just the expects
Express package so if you're thinking of
upgrading I would definitely go for that
one that's all I want to say so let me
take some of your questions I will do my
best and if I miss your question I'm
sorry please send us an email
hello Eddie to languish calm and check
out the site e to language comm if
you're not already a free subscriber be
sure to join there for free you can you
have access to quite a few live classes
okay and people on YouTube I'll try and
check your chat box in a moment all
right let's see what else we got
and by the way if you need to go thank
you for coming along please feel free to
skip class now do we have a paper based
mock test people have been asking for
computer-based mock tests for so long
yet on this science harish there are six
practice tests and when you log in and
click on course there's reading writing
listening speaking and a button which
says practice tests so in that those
tests you can actually print them out
you can print out the reading the
listening paper and take it like a
paper-based test so that's probably a
another option for you
Mohamed I can't read that
okay for my study pathway I can't find
the multiple choice a blue bar is saying
let me open up I'll just go to the
website and maybe some of your questions
I can answer with reference to that
there with me keep keep typing your
questions by the way if you guys can
answer each other's questions please
feel free make sure your chat box is
open to all panelists while I dig around
here Mohamed training is uncountable I
did a lot of training you can't say I
didn't mini training no okay can you see
my e to language dashboard there now
wrong button yes okay thank you
talika sorry I missed your name
you were asking us at Abu Bakr you were
asking about multiple choice in your
study pathway which is here on the right
you couldn't see multiple choice for
listening or for reading so another way
to get to the course is over here on the
left
I mean unlogged in US general if you are
an academic student mmm it will just say
academic and then go to was it sorry
listening or reading that you are after
let's imagine it's listening just click
on here and here's the multiple choice
section so with the overview and a bunch
of practice are for reading sorry okay
same thing click on reading at the top
one multiple choice so the study pathway
which is on the dashboard here just
organizes your study materials according
to when your test is and we put we kind
of put what we think is essential
high-priority but you can access the
course just through the
on the left as well and the practice
tests are here I think Parrish was
asking about that that they're sort of a
combo of paper-based
and computer-based and the mock test is
over here Kim just put your question in
the chat box if that's okay Carmen if
you sent your work for remarking through
IELTS you can take between two days and
six weeks I think three you so you send
it three weeks ago it's possible it's
just still coming to leak oh yeah you
can when you upgrade you you just need
to pay the difference you don't need to
pay fully again so you can just talk to
the student support help at e2 language
comm about that our mill how is it
possible for us to see the recording of
the class if you're not paid it's not so
the recorded classes section which is
here this is a benefit I guess for our
paid subscribers I mean we do I know try
to offer as much as we can for free with
a lot of stuff on YouTube as well but
yeah some of it because of course it's
our teachers time so um some of it we
have to put payment on but you can come
along to the free classes so at the
moment you have access to the weekend
classes and I think to more through the
week if you're a free subscriber so as a
paid subscriber I have access to all of
those do we need to have a package to
book a tutorial mm-hmm
yes and no in your bronze member and
about it it's included in your package
if you just want to book a tutorial and
you're a free subscriber it is possible
just have to go through the student
support guys so help sorry hello at e2
language comm they can help you often
it's
cheaper to just upgrade your
subscription because buying a tutorial
is quite expensive but when it's in the
package it can be a bit cheaper
ah can I tell talk about mock tests yes
absolutely so this is just a new thing
it's over here so if you have recently
subscribed you can get a special deal
it's just mock test Plus Express package
and the mock test is a full IELTS test
so reading writing listening and
speaking the reading and listening is in
the computer delivered format so it
works just like the computer delivered
IELTS you can highlight on the screen
you can move between section 1 and
section 3 for instance and this it
scores you automatically so you get a
score out of 40 and you get a balanced
score as well the writing you do it on
the computer with the timer going just
like in the real test you click Submit
and then it will come through to us to
the teachers and we look at your work
and give you some feedback and a score
and that happens within 48 hours of
submitting and you also can book a
speaking test see the button here book
speaking mock test click on that you
just choose the day twos the time
register and again it comes to us and
sets you up with a teacher and the
teacher sends you an invitation to a
meeting and you have it you'll need a
camera and a microphone the teacher will
give you a full speaking test
I don't speaking test and it takes about
10 to 15 minutes after that when you say
goodbye the teacher gives you a score
and some feedback and a going that comes
through into your dashboard so when
you've done your test and you click on
mock tests here rather than start test
book test it will have your results so
your band score and when you click into
that you can see all the correct answers
for reading and listening you can also
see your writing score for each criteria
and each little micro piece of the
criteria and same for speaking you can
see all the all the scores that you
receive for each part of it I play that
makes sense for the mock test once
you've done the writing and the speaking
you get your
that's within 48 hours usually yeah 24
to 48 hours
mmm talika if your test is in 15 days so
you've got time to do some feedback some
running feedback so perhaps you could
start with the this one with the mock
test and Express package then you have
access to all the live classes all the
recorded classes and from there if you
want to get some more feedback I just
upgrade probably to bronze bronze
package you get I think it's I think
it's for tasks ones and for task two is
we'll have to check that yeah so I think
the main thing is to get some feedback
common hmm can we ask for another exam
that it's the same one you could ask I
think I'm not sure if they'll allow that
or not it doesn't usually doesn't matter
and the examiner won't remember what
they gave you Mohamed's yeah if you ask
aunts asked about writers claims it's
usually the author so you yeah not not
somebody who's being quoted Christian
serum-free subscribe it no the mock test
is if you just want to do the mock test
it's $49 because as I said the teacher
you have teacher interaction and we mark
your work so it's not free or you can
get it as part of the Express package
for $59 which is a better option I think
can me and my husband share the same
package
yes I'll pretend you didn't say that
I've got again study plan with the
teacher that is a feature of the I think
gold and platinum packages I think
that's a question for let me just go
back to this screen so it's some of
these questions I know I'm missing the
hello at a two language they can help
with that I'll just very quickly check
our YouTube buddies if there's anything
that you're dying to ask me there
Isak asking can we get individualized
training from the trainer absolutely
that is the tutorial 32 language so when
you book your tutorial you also select
what you want to work on so writing and
listening for example and the teacher
has a look through your history and sees
what work you've already done what
assessments you've submitted and they
they tailor the class for you you can
also eat they'll send you an email so
you can send them some writing or send
them something that you want to work on
to about five
five in writing and I need seven okay
yes well have a look through the YouTube
channel but then also I really recommend
you're trying to make a big jump like
that from 6 to 7 or 5 point 5 to 7
you're gonna need some feedback
Kristin SIA just jump on the 8th on a
tee language comm there's a there's the
packages lined up Express runs but
there's something along the top which
says special offer on Express class mark
click on that and subscribe through that
otherwise just email and the guys will
help you out they can Jess and her team
will help you there ok and yes we can
sorry mum would asking can we give
feedback on writing yes absolutely
come on to the website e to language
calm and submit your work through there
and we give you lots of feedback all
right well we're over time as always
sorry about that thank you guys for
coming make sure you register for
speaking and listening tonight and I
will see you in class tomorrow for task
1 thank you and keep working hard I'll
see you guys again next Friday if you're
watching on YouTube make sure you
subscribe 18 language calm because we
don't usually live stream these just
today thank you guys have a good day
thank you you too have it
catch you next time bye